HIZURU: In the year 1732,
thousands starved to death
on Hitogashima
during the Great Kyoho Famine.
Just as the island was dying off,
a whale washed up on Omotohama Beach.
The islanders were overjoyed
with this gift from god,
and gathered to devour it.
During this time,
a fisherman's daughter came,
and the whale's body suddenly flashed.
In a blink of an eye,
it took the form of that girl,
and then consumed her.
Fearing to be cursed by her,
people started to worship it,
as the living goddess Hiruko.
This is Hiruko's Lore,
a Hitogashima legend.
(theme music)
Sense any shadows, Ushioh?
USHIOH: No.
Ms. Nagumo was right.
Sure enough, Karikiri isn't one.
All right, just don't let your guard down.
USHIOH: Got it.
Man, it's been so hot lately.
SHINPEI: It has.
So is Tokyo hot? Hotter than Wakayama?
No, it's more or less the same.
-MASAHITO: Have some cold barley tea.
-SHINPEI: Oh, thank you.
But you... you came
to Tokyo last year, right?
Huh?
Yesterday, weren't you telling me
that you went to a game event in Tokyo?
Ah! That's right. It was near the ocean,
in Makuhari.
MASAHITO: Makuhari is in Chiba,
but, yeah, Tokyo really was hot!
There were so many people, too.
You really like games, huh?
What type do you play?
Oh, I used to love RPGs,
but now it's like FPS or
like simulation games.
Are you going to go again this year?
I'm not, I probably
won't make it this year.
Although, when I heard
about the FF7 remake, I was so excited.
Is FF7 really any good?
I hear a lot about it.
What? So you've never played it before?
I mean, it did come out
before I was even born.
MASAHITO: Well, its worldview is unique,
maybe because it came out
at the end of the century.
Both its art and music
have a mood of decadence.
The whole thing makes you think
about the end of life.
Wow, life, really?
I guess your passion for video games
is similar to mine for novels.
Do you know the novel Swamp Man
by Ryunosuke Nagumo?
I really like it,
it feels a lot like it was about me,
as if it was written about my own life.
Art imitating life, I guess.
MASAHITO: I don't know that story,
I've never heard of that book,
but I do know about the Swamp Man theory.
Is that what it's about?
SHINPEI: Yeah, one day,
a copy of the protagonist shows up
and starts living in his place.
No one at home or at school notices
that he's actually a copy.
It perfectly copied
all the memories, personality,
and DNA of the original person.
But if that really happened,
do you think that it would be
the same person as the original?
I would. Yes, I would think he is.
Human cells are replaced every day,
because of our metabolism.
Our cells continuously divide
and copy themselves.
Whether it was done in a flash
or slowly, doesn't make a difference.
SHINPEI: So you believe a copy
is the same as the original?
MASAHITO: Yes, I guess I do.
Is this always what you think about?
It was the shadow sickness yesterday.
SHINPEI: I also looked into Hiruko's Lore.
At first, I was going to ask you,
however, Hizuru told me all about it.
About 300 years ago, in the Edo period,
a god appeared on this island,
that god was Hiruko.
SHINPEI: In the distant past,
it arrived from outside this realm,
or we can just call it "space."
It was an organism that lived out there,
and copied nearby objects,
transformed, and consumed the copied data.
But it had a limited choice of objects
to transform into, out in space.
So it most likely came down to Earth
in the form of a meteorite,
fell into the ocean,
and probably copied a lot of things.
(ominous music)
This part is just Hizuru's theory,
but the rest of the story is
in the written records of Hiruko's Lore.
SHINPEI: Three hundred years ago,
it transformed into a whale,
and for some reason,
washed up on this island.
It copied a fisherman's daughter
who came to see the whale washed ashore.
That was the beginning
of the shadow sickness.
Well, that's what they say
in Hiruko's Lore.
Are you saying that it's true?
Yeah. Shadows do exist.
They're the ones responsible
for killing Ushio,
as well as killing my parents,
and they'll do the same to everyone
who shows up tomorrow for the festival.
MASAHITO (laughs): Oh, sorry. I'm sorry.
You've read way too many stories.
I know you're upset about Ushio's death.
You should get some rest.
SHINPEI: I already know everything.
Karikiri, you know it's true.
After all, you watched it all unfold.
Wow.
What in the world is it?
I think it's a whale.
-(indistinct chatter)
-(whimpers)
(tense music)
I didn't notice it at first,
but Dr. Hishigata pointed you out to me.
Do you see the man on your right?
He is Dr. Hishigata's grandfather.
What are you doing in a photo
from 70 years ago,
Masahito Karikiri,
or should I say, Shidehiko Hishigata?
I know you are Shide.
Heine!
(static)
(indistinct chatter)
Come back here, Heine!
(gasps)
WOMAN: Where did it go?
What happened to the whale?
(foreboding music)
Heine? Heine. Come here.
Ah, Mr. Shide.
(Shadow growls)
SUMMER TIME RENDERING
-Shinpei.
-(gunshots)
Don't move. Move, and I'll kill you.
What has Dr. Hishigata told you exactly?
I'm the one asking questions here.
Not you. Look at the other photo.
That picture was taken 40 years ago.
Dr. Hishigata's father took that picture.
You aren't a shadow,
but you're definitely not human, either.
HIZURU: Swamp Man.
Hiruko? What the heck is it doing here?
I don't know. It's just a guess.
If so, the Hishigata Clinic
and Hito Shrine must be connected somehow.
Four-arms could be Masahito Karikiri.
Uh, huh? Are you sure? The Karikiri boy?
Don't you think so, too, Ushioh?
-Yeah.
-Heine.
It sounds pretty suspicious
for the shrine to worship her
if she's the mother of all shadows.
Since Karikiri is the priest there.
Yeah, maybe. But isn't Karikiri human?
HIZURU: Why would Four-arms hide its face?
If it were a shadow, it could just
transform itself into anything.
What if it's human and just isn't able
to copy anything at all?
I've never seen it scan anything,
but it did print.
Well, if Four-arms is actually human
but he is wearing all that sludge
of shadows as some sort of armor.
He's hiding his face,
because he knows if he didn't,
we would easily recognize him.
Ah!
Ugh! How could it do that to Ryunosuke?
Four-arms must be Masahito Karikiri.
After seeing it in your memories,
I'm sure.
But how can you tell?
I never liked that priest.
HIZURU: Four-arms disgusts me
the same way.
NEZU: What do you mean?
He can hide his face,
but not what's inside.
And the fact that Nezu's shots didn't work
makes sense if it's human.
If I remember correctly,
Karikiri was at the funeral.
SHINPEI: Maybe he sent a shadow
in his place.
I think we can easily assassinate him
if there really is a human inside.
It would be easy if he is human.
I'll just casually visit the shrine,
and shoot him while we chat.
What? That's murder!
We still need more evidence, Ms. Nagumo.
And besides, if he's human,
we might be able to negotiate
a truce with him.
Shide burned his left hand.
It will help us know for sure.
DR. HISHIGATA: Look at this.
Shide is Heine's guardian,
and the first child Heine bore.
Its original form is Shidehiko Hishigata,
founder of the Hishigata Clinic.
(gasps)
What? What is this picture?
DR. HISHIGATA: The Hishigata family
was in charge
of religious ceremonies on the island,
until Shidehiko's father
began playing doctor in the Edo period.
But that can't be. Hishigata?
The Karikiris have the shrine.
The Karikiris
and the Hishigatas are related.
They branched off from the Hishigatas.
(both gasp)
Do you know Hiruko's Lore?
The day Hiruko drifted here,
Hiruko became Heine,
and then Heine became a god
to the islanders.
DR. HISHIGATA: That's right.
In time, Shidehiko had a child
with this god.
(both gasp)
The child wasn't born
from a scanned shadow.
He got Heine's body pregnant,
and she gave birth to a child.
(both gasp)
DR. HISHIGATA:
He called himself a god's husband,
and took Heine's surname, Karikiri.
Shidehiko had a brother.
After Heine gave birth,
the Hishigata family split,
the Karikiris became priests,
and the Hishigatas became doctors.
TOKIKO: In other words,
we're related to Shide?
I can't believe it.
So who did Heine give birth to?
DR. HISHIGATA: When the child grew up,
it was the spitting image of Shidehiko.
That must be the nature of shadows.
A child from Heine's pregnancy
is the father's clone.
(both gasp)
Shidehiko noticed this,
and it kindled a certain desire.
It can't be.
He made Heine copy
and implant his personality
and memory in the clone.
DR. HISHIGATA: That way, he was reborn.
(gasps)
That's sick. No wonder I hated him.
My father helped to deliver the baby,
and he took that photograph.
DR. HISHIGATA:
His current body was born that day.
Shide repeated this technique,
and made Heine give birth
to his new body over and over,
and that's how he's lived for 300 years.
You're a hybrid of human and shadow.
Well, well, Shinpei.
You don't play fair. You loop.
You can't possibly know so much
in just one day.
Well, take a seat and have some tea.
It's not poisoned.
So you admit it.
(ice clinking)
(gulping)
(sighs)
(grunts)
I was 40 years old then,
long, long time ago.
MASAHITO: It was the summer of 1732,
the year of the Great Kyoho Famine.
Do you know about it?
It's in the textbooks.
We had a terrible harvest that year.
Fishermen died, so we had no fish, either.
And that's when Heine showed up
on the shore.
SHINPEI: The islanders believed that god
was in the things that washed ashore,
so they believed Heine was a god.
And in exchange for eating the people,
Heine blessed the fishing.
No, that's not it at all.
You are sorely mistaken, Shinpei.
She just turned a few hundred people
on the island into shadows,
because shadows can easily catch fish
and save people from starving.
MASAHITO: So Hitogashima still exists,
thanks to me.
USHIOH: Shut up!
Are you actually justifying
yourself right now?
Why did you kill Shinpei's parents?
MASAHITO: Same as you, I'm sure.
They got in the way.
They found Hiruko's grotto
and tried to make it public.
They weren't smart for that,
but Mother enjoyed her meal.
USHIOH: Unforgivable.
Oh, I guess you would have
preferred them as shadows, huh?
(grunting)
I'm not... I'm nothing like you.
I don't want to kill people.
You don't want to die, do you?
Why go so far to protect Heine?
SHINPEI: You're human,
so you can't go with her to her home.
Give up Heine, and then you must end
this bloody massacre.
That is not how it ends.
My mission is to fulfill Mother's wish.
SHINPEI: Shit. Shit.
And you never know, you know?
I might have a shadow, too.
SHINPEI: Something's off.
Pull the trigger!
There aren't any shadows here!
SHINPEI: Why? Why is he...
Shoot, Shinpei!
Now is our only chance! Hurry up!
I know exactly
what you're thinking right now.
"Why isn't his left hand burned? Strange."
MASAHITO: Right?
By the way, Shinpei. Can I move now?
USHIOH: That's it.
I can't take it anymore!
Ushioh! Hold on!
(foreboding music)
(gasps)
(grunts)
(blood splatters)
(both sigh)
(Shinpei panting)
He's dead. Is that it?
I said I was going to do it.
I didn't want you to have
to do something like this.
(sighs)
I can't let you murder someone.
Why not? It was my duty. My revenge.
You're kind, so you would've regretted it.
USHIOH: You see everyone as people,
even me, and even him.
Leave all the dirty work to me, okay?
Ushioh.
Can I?
Did you hear? I killed Shide.
(thuds)
(squeaks)
-(blood sloshes)
-Shin...
(blade pierces flesh)
Okay. One down.
(suspenseful music)
USHIOH: Shide... Why?
No, it can't be. I'm sorry, Shinpei.
I didn't notice...
(static)
-(shouting)
-(gunshots)
-(gun clicking)
MASAHITO: Well...
That was close, Shinpei.
I guess you didn't step back enough
to look at the situation.
-(blade pierces flesh)
-(groaning)
HIZURU: You're going alone?
NEZU: Persuade him?
(grunts)
NEZU: No, I say we kill him
the moment we see him in his skin.
(grunts)
NEZU: I'll kill him.
SHINPEI: No, please wait, let me try once.
If I don't know what he's thinking,
then there's no way I can kill him.
I want him to tell me
why he killed my parents himself.
I'll never accept it if I don't.
-NEZU: But...
-SHINPEI: I have to.
SHINPEI: I'll even die once
just so I can hear it.
USHIOH: Fine,
but I'm still going with you.
You won't even stand a chance
if the shrine's full of shadows.
HIZURU: She's right. If you go alone,
they might try to capture you.
NEZU: We'll be on the grounds, too.
SHINPEI: I understand.
NEZU: Can we somehow listen in
on their conversation?
USHIOH: What if we put a phone
in your pocket with a multi-way call?
SHINPEI: But you won't be able
to really hear anything.
NEZU: We just need to hear gunshots.
SHINPEI: All right.
I'll shoot twice into his shadow.
If you hear three shots,
come in and check if it's human.
-(gunshot)
-(glass shatters)
I wonder how you're feeling right now.
Like a kid who forgot to save
at the end of the game?
Ushio is dead.
(groaning)
MASAHITO: Brat.
(retches)
MASAHITO: You thought you could mess
with my ending?
USHIOH: Don't worry.
I'm with you, no matter what.
The only loop you're going to get
will be of despair and regret.
(grunting)
MASAHITO: Take care now.
(gasps)
Shinpei really gets led around
by the nose.
Mm-hm! They're like a couple.
Oh?
-Huh?
-Huh? Wait.
Where'd she go?
AKARI: She was just there.
(Shinpei sobbing)
Uh, Shinpei?
(sobbing)
(closing theme music)